Lucknow, the capital of Uttar Pradesh is primarily acclaimed for its Nawabi era finesse. It has remained an important center of commercial activity in the past and also acted as the epicenter of the Revolt of 1857. The vibrant city lies in the middle of the Heritage Arc. It is a sanctuary for epic monuments reflecting a blend of colonial and oriental architecture, wide boulevards, fascinating bazaars and several parks. The city is famous for its rich literature, chikan embroidery, zardozi and exceptional cuisines. The outstanding structures like Rumi Darwaza, Bada and Chota Imambara, Dilkusha Kothi are the harbingers to the faded grandiosity. The lip-smacking delicacies like Kebabs, Biryanis, Makhan Malai keep drawing visitors from all over the world.
Ambedkar Park, Lucknow
This public park named after Dr. BR Ambedkar is located on Vipul Khand of Gomti Nagar and is an important landmark of contemporary Lucknow. The park is spread across a vast area and houses several impressive structures. The Pratibimb Sthal with 62 statues of the elephant guards the entrance. The Ambedkar Stupa, centrally located has several statues of Ambedkar depicting his biography. Parivartan Sangrahalay the two domed structure has statues of social reformers like Shahuji Maharaj, Sree Narayana Guru, Jyotiba Phule, Kanshiram and Dr. B.R. Ambedkar. There is another structure housing marble statues of Gautam Buddha, Birsa Munda, Sant Ravidas, Guru Ghasidas, and Kabir Das. It also has a gallery that has bronze murals.
Location & Address:	Vipul Khand 2, Vipul Khand 3, Gomti Nagar, Lucknow, Lucknow
Place Category & Type:	Nature Sites and Parks - Park & Garden
Place visit with:	Family, Kids, Married Couples, Parants, Siblings
Fees & Timings:	Ambedkar Park open from 11:00 am to 09:00 pm all days in week, Entry fee Rs 10.
Best Time to Visit:	January, February, March, April, May, June
Nearest Metro Station:	Lekhraj Market Metro Station (2 KM)
Aminabad Market, Lucknow
Dating back to the times of Nawabs this is the country's largest and busiest markets. It truly is a haggler's paradise as there are no fixed price shops here. The market was primarily famous for selling traditional chikankari wedding garments, jewelry, books, handicrafts, but today one can get a wide variety of other products too. The market gives a feel of the Chandni Chowk market in Delhi. Dotted with several eateries serving scrumptious delicacies from bread rolls to kebabs, biryanis, it is a gastronome's first choice. Lucknowi paan and tunday kebabi, chat at Kalika house, Wahid biryani cannot be missed. The main market remains closed on Thursday and a flee roadside bazaar sets in its place.
Location & Address:	Mumtaz Market, 27-52, Aminabad, Lucknow, Lucknow
Place Category & Type:	Shopping Place - Street Market
Fees & Timings:	Aminabad Market open from 11:00 am to 10:30 pm, No entry fee.
Best Time to Visit:	January, February, March, April, May, June
Nearest Metro Station:	Durgapuri Metro Station (2 KM) Charbagh Railway Station Metro Station (2 KM) Hussainganj Metro Station (2 KM) Sachivalaya Metro Station (2 KM) Hazratganj Metro Station (2 KM) KD Singh Babu Stadium Metro Station (1 KM) Lucknow University Metro Station (2 KM) Charbagh Railway Station Metro Station (2 KM) Aminabad Metro Station (1 KM) Pandeyganj Metro Station (1 KM) City Railway Station Metro Station (2 KM)
Amrapali Water Park, Lucknow
Located around 18 km before Malihabad this place attracts a good number of visitors all round the year. It is a sought after destination for an adventure-filled outing with family and friends. The park has several attractions to cater to visitors of all age groups. It boasts of having the highest number of rides in comparison to other water parks in Lucknow. Rides like Float slide, Crazy cruise, Aqua Trail, Black Hole, splash pools manage to make one feel the gush of adrenalin. The premises also have green sprawling lawns, cottages, eating outlets, and a dedicated kid's play area. A live DJ playing the peppy numbers adds to the animation. The park also features camel rides which can be enjoyed by adults and children alike.
Location & Address:	Sahilamau, Hardoi Rd, Malihabad, Lucknow
Place Category & Type	Fun and Activity - Amusement & Water Park
Place visit with:	Family, Kids, Friends, Solo, Parants, Siblings, Youngsters
Fees & Timings:	Open from 10:30 am to 07:00 pm, Entry fee for adult Rs 300 and child Rs 150, Rs 50 for adult, Rs 25 for child extra charge on weekend.
Bara Imambara, Lucknow
It is an 18th-century architectural wonder built by Nawab Asaf-ud-Daula. The building is an acclaimed monument and evinces the exquisite style of Mughal engineering. The humungous does not use metal or wood and is considered to be the world's largest structure that is unsupported by beams. The Imambara is predominantly famous for its Bhul Bhulaiya locally, a series of labyrinths on the top floor led by a flight of stairs on the outside. This place is especially revered by the Shia Muslims and the festival of Muharram is organized here. The Bada Imambara also houses the grave of Nawab Asaf-Ud-Dowlaha.
Location & Address:	Machchhi Bhavan, Lucknow, Lucknow
Place Category & Type:	Religious Place - Mosques
Place visit with:	Friends, Solo, Parants, Youngsters
Fees & Timings:	This place open from sunrise to sunset all days in week, Entry fee for Indian Rs 50 and for foreigner Rs 500.
Best Time to Visit:	January, February, March, April
Nearest Metro Station:	City Railway Station Metro Station (1 KM) Thakurganj Metro Station (2 KM)
British Residency, Lucknow
As is evident from the name the building was once the residence of the British Resident General who was a representative in the court of Nawab. Now the group of buildings overlooking the Gomti river is a government office, a heritage site, and a popular tourist landmark. The building earned significance during the seize of Lucknow, held when the first revolt 1857 was staged in India. It served as the warehouse of those "wretched cartridges". Once a magnificent three-story building it had a library, offices, residential quarter, armory, worship places, stables, dispensaries, games room, etc. The large hallways have high ceilings with arches bearing intricate detailings. A beautiful fountain at the entrance amidst the lawns adds to the grandeur.
Location & Address:	Mahatma Gandhi Marg, Deep Manak Nagar, Qaisar Bagh, Lucknow, Lucknow
Place Category & Type:	Monument - Palace & Landmarks
Place visit with:	Friends, Parants, Solo, Siblings, Youngsters
Fees & Timings:	Lucknow Residency open from 10:00 am to 05:00 pm all days in week, Entry fee for Indian Rs 5 and for foreigner Rs 100.
Best Time to Visit:	January, February, March, April
Nearest Metro Station:	Sachivalaya Metro Station (2 KM) Hazratganj Metro Station (2 KM) KD Singh Babu Stadium Metro Station (1 KM) Lucknow University Metro Station (1 KM) IT College Metro Station (2 KM) Aminabad Metro Station (2 KM) Pandeyganj Metro Station (2 KM) City Railway Station Metro Station (1 KM)
Chandrika Devi Temple, Lucknow
The 12th-century shrine is dedicated to Chandrika Devi, who is believed to be a manifestation of Goddesses Kali, Lakshmi, and Saraswati. Situated in Aashiyana, the temple is believed to have been a part of the Satyuga. It is one of the most revered Hindu shrines in the city. The sanctum houses the idol of Goddess Durga with three heads. A pond is present in the premises which has a seated statue of Godess consort, Lord Shiva. Throngs of pilgrims visit here, especially during the auspicious days of Amavasya and Navratri as these are considered favorable for the performance of religious rituals like 'hawan' and 'mundan'.
Location & Address:	A-42, Jail Rd, Sector J, Ashiyana, Lucknow, Lucknow
Place Category & Type:	Religious Place - Temple
Place visit with:	Family, Kids, Friends, Married Couples, Solo, Unmarried Couples, Parants, Siblings, Youngsters
Fees & Timings:	Chandrika Devi Temple open from 5:00 am to 1:00 pm, 2:00 pm to 11:00 pm all days in week, No entry fee.
Best Time to Visit:	September, October, November, December
Nearest Metro Station:	Singar Nagar Metro Station (2 KM)
Charbagh Railway Station, Lucknow
Charbagh literally refers to four gardens which once existed in the area. The majestic and aesthetically designed building gives a glimpse of the rich Rajasthani and Mughal architecture. The premises of the station are so constructed that the sound of the trains cannot be heard outside. The premises originally belonged to an orchard that was converted into a railway station in 1867. The impressive construction of the building gives a feel of a chessboard with domes and buildings resembling the pieces of chess in the aerial view. It remains a hot spot of activity throughout the year and is equipped with modern-day facilities.
Location & Address:	Charbhag Railway station, Lucknow, Lucknow
Place Category & Type:	Sightseeing - Palace & Landmarks
Place visit with:	Family, Kids, Friends, Parants, Siblings, Youngsters
Fees & Timings:	Charbhag Railway station open 24 hours all days in week, No entry fee.
Best Time to Visit:	September, October, November, December
Nearest Metro Station:	Thakurganj Metro Station (2 KM) Balaganj Metro Station (1 KM) Sarfarazganj Metro Station (1 KM) Musabagh Metro Station (2 KM)
Chattar Manzil, Lucknow
Located on the banks of River Gomti, the two-story building exhibits a unique blend of European and nawabi architecture. The building is currently owned by Central Drug Research Institute though it was originally built by General Claud Martin as his residence in 1781. It has gilded umbrella on the dome and it is popularly called the umbrella palace. The major highlight and the most captivating feature of the building is the presence of underground halls, the tahekhanas which lead into the river Gomti. They were designed purposefully to regulate temperature during summers. Several curious tourists are drawn to witness this marvel all around the year.
Location & Address:	Mahatma Gandhi Marg, Qaisar Bagh, Lucknow, Lucknow
Place Category & Type:	Monument - Palace & Landmarks
Place visit with:	Friends, Parants, Solo, Siblings, Youngsters
Fees & Timings:	Chattar Manzil from 08:00 am to 06:00 pm all days in week, No entry fee.
Best Time to Visit:	May, June, July, August
Nearest Metro Station:	Sachivalaya Metro Station (2 KM) Hazratganj Metro Station (1 KM) KD Singh Babu Stadium Metro Station (1 KM) Lucknow University Metro Station (1 KM) IT College Metro Station (2 KM) Aminabad Metro Station (2 KM) Pandeyganj Metro Station (2 KM) City Railway Station Metro Station (1 KM)
Chota Imambara, Lucknow
Also known as the Imambara of Hussainabad, it is situated adjacent to the Bada Imambara. Built by Muhammad Ali Shah in the 19th century, this is yet another spectacle of awe-inspiring craftsmanship. Its large dome, towering minarets, and sprawling lawns personify its grandeur. The walls adorned with Arabic inscriptions. It is popularly also called the palace of light owing to extensive use of glass and interiors incandescent with grand chandeliers and the interiors are adorned with Arabic inscriptions. The monument also houses two facsimiles of Agra's Tajmahal. This was originally meant for the congregation of Shia Muslims, but later it became the resting place of Nawab and his mother.
Location & Address:	Tahseen Ganj, Husainabad, Lucknow, Lucknow
Place Category & Type:	Religious Place - Mosques
Place visit with:	Friends, Solo, Parants, Youngsters
Fees & Timings:	Chota Imambara open from 06:00 am to 05:00 pm all days in week, Entry fee for Indian Rs 25 and for foreigner Rs 300.
Best Time to Visit:	May, June, July, August
Nearest Metro Station:	City Railway Station Metro Station (2 KM) Thakurganj Metro Station (1 KM)
Chowk, Lucknow
Holding on to the reminisces of the bygone Awadhi Era the market is centrally located in Lucknow around 3kms away from Bara Imaambara. With a maze-like cobweb of streets, the market has as many as 5000 permanent and temporary shops selling a wide variety of goods. The market is famous for genuine chikankari, rich zardozi, nagara shoes, traditional handmade jewelry, handicrafts made of ivory, bamboo, and wood, ittar or perfume, antiques, and much more. One can also get to pamper one's tastebuds at shops selling authentic Awadhi food ranging from kebabs, paratha, biryani, chicken or mutton delicacies, rich desserts, and Makhan malai. The market remains close on Thursdays. The market has always been a prime hub of commercial activity in the whole of North India.
Location & Address:	Chowk, Lucknow, Lucknow
Place Category & Type:	Shopping Place - Street Market
Fees & Timings:	Chowk open from 11:00 am to 10:300 pm (Thursday close), No entry fee.
Best Time to Visit:	January, February, March, April, May, June
Nearest Metro Station: City Railway Station Metro Station (2 KM) Thakurganj Metro Station (1 KM)
Constantia House, Lucknow
Constantia House is located on the premises of the famous La Martiniere Boys College, in Lucknow. The construction of this yellow sandstone building was initiated by a French Major-General Claude Martin, in 1785. It is an architectural potpourri reflecting a combination of Greek, English, Italian, and Mughal styles. A flight of grand stairs leads to the entrance of this majestic building. The interiors of the building are decorated by french carpets, detailings of plaster of Paris, mirrors, and paintings. A tall copula"Laat" seems to touch the blue sky. The building serves as the burial ground of its author manufacturer. The grandiosity of the palatial building reminds of the opulence of the bygone era.
Location & Address:	La Martiniere Road, La Martiniere College, Lucknow, Lucknow
Place Category & Type:	Monument - Palace & Landmarks
Place visit with: Friends, Siblings, Youngsters
Fees & Timings:	Constantia House open from 08:00 am to 06:00 pm all days in week, No entry fee.
Best Time to Visit:	January, February, March, April
Nearest Metro Station: Sachivalaya Metro Station (2 KM) Hazratganj Metro Station (2 KM)
Dilkusha Kothi, Lucknow
The remnants of the 18th-century building are not only a delight for visitors, but has also immense historical and cultural significance. Located in the vicinity of Gomti River the Baroque-style construction, though impacted severely, managed to survive the first war of Indian independence in 1857. The building was originally erected to serve as the hunting lodge for the Nawabs. Bearing a close resemblance to Seaton Delaval Hall, England the original three-story building had a basement. An impressive flight of steps led to four ornate octagonal towers. The vestiges of the walls, towers, and a neatly manicured garden to date echo the saga of its grand past.
Location & Address:	Bibiapur Marg, Neil Lines, Cantonment, Lucknow, Lucknow
Place Category & Type:	Monument - Palace & Landmarks
Place visit with:	Friends, Parants, Solo, Siblings, Youngsters
Fees & Timings:	Dilkusha Kothi open from 08:00 am to 06:00 pm all days in week, Entry fee for Indian Rs 5 and for foreigner Rs 100.
Best Time to Visit:	September, October, November, December
Four Seasons Fun City Water Park, Lucknow
Located on the Rai Bareilly Road this water park has something unique to offer. Besides the umpteen thrilling rides like reverse multi-lane slide, twister ride, tube slides, family slide, crazy cruise, playpen, jet splash, float slide, multi cruise and it has a snow park. The snow park is the major highlight of this amusement park, artificial snow is formed at -32 degrees Celcius, crystallized and then sprayed as snow from a height of 4 to 5 feet by a special unit of the water park. The park is also set with an in-house DJ and dance floor, which play electrifying background score. The place is a must-visit and has something for everyone.
Location & Address:	Raibareli Road, Lucknow, Lucknow
Place Category & Type:	Fun and Activity - Amusement & Water Park
Place visit with:	Family, Kids, Friends, Solo, Parants, Siblings, Youngsters
Fees & Timings:	Four seasons fun city water park open from 10:00 am to 07:00 pm all days in week, Entry fee for Rs 200.
Fun Republic Mall, Lucknow
Located at Vipin Khand in Gomti Nagar, Lucknow it is one the most visited and largest malls in the city. Its easily accessible location makes it a popular shopping destination and it bustles with a lot of activity especially on weekends. It has something for everybody. It houses stores of famous brands of apparel, footwear, accessories, home decor, electronics, gifts, and souvenirs, Also it has a cineplex, supermarket, food court, stand-alone restaurants, and a games zone. It is a one-stop shopping destination for shopaholics featuring brands like UCB, Puma, Shopper's Stop, Mochi, Adidas, Nike, Max, Spencer's, Archies, and many more. Savory food is served at Moti Mahal Delux, Madras Mail, Noodle Station, Mezbaan, and Nawabi Shack. A quick getaway to break the monotony and let one's hair down.
Location & Address:	Gomti Nagar, Lucknow, Lucknow
Place Category & Type:	Shopping Place - Shopping Malls
Fees & Timings:	Fun Republic Mall open from 10:00 am to 10:00 pm all days in week, No entry fee.
Best Time to Visit:	July, August, September, October, November, December
Gomti Riverfront Park, Lucknow
It was constructed by the Government of Uttar Pradesh to conserve and revive the lifeline of the state, River Gomti. Constructed in line with the International Standards park has been recently inaugurated. It has to be an important landmark of the contemporary Lucknow and is a sought after destination owing to its aesthetic quotient. Bound by the lush green surroundings across the banks of Gomti the park's prime attraction is the musical fountain. Other amenities include a capacious amphitheater, jogging, and walking tracks, boating, and kids play region. The park lets one experience the splendor of River Gomti while immersing one's soul in the scenic beauty.
Location & Address:	Jiamau, Lucknow, Lucknow
Place Category & Type:	Nature Sites and Parks - Park & Garden
Place visit with:	Family, Kids, Married Couples, Parants, Siblings
Fees & Timings:	Gomti River Front Park open from 06:00 am to 10:-00 pm all days in week, Entry fee Rs for Rs 10.
Best Time to Visit:	January, February, March, April, May, June
Nearest Metro Station: Badshah Nagar Metro Station (2 KM) Lekhraj Market Metro Station (2 KM)
Hazratganj Market, Lucknow
The century-old bazaar in the heart of Lucknow city was called the Queen's way by the British. The market features uniformly painted shops and buildings, stone pavements reflecting the Victorian style of architecture. Once called the Park Avenue of Lucknow it houses branded shops meant for premium shopping and is certainly not a place for bargaining. Primarily famous for Chikankari, hand made fabric, ornaments, embroidered sarees the market has showrooms, cinema halls, restaurants, and factory outlets. Seva Chikan, Janpath, Sahara Mall, Lovelane are the notable attractions of the area. It is also a food lover's favorite haunt. The tempting basket chaat at the royal cafe, delectable treats by the JJbakers, and goodies at cherry tree cafe are a must-try. The market remains closed on Sundays.
Location & Address:	Hajratganj, Lucknow, Lucknow
Place Category & Type:	Shopping Place - Street Market
Fees & Timings:	Hazratganj Market open from 10:00 am to 11:00 pm all days in week, No entry fee.
Best Time to Visit:	July, August, September, October, November, December
Nearest Metro Station:	Sachivalaya Metro Station (1 KM) Hazratganj Metro Station (1 KM) KD Singh Babu Stadium Metro Station (1 KM) Lucknow University Metro Station (2 KM) Aminabad Metro Station (2 KM) Pandeyganj Metro Station (2 KM)
Husainabad Clock Tower, Lucknow
Locally known as the Ghanta Ghar the 221 ft. tall magnificent structure displaying the Victorian-Gothic style architecture is by far the tallest in the country. Bearing a striking similarity with Big Ben of England the four-faced clock tower stands close to Rumi Darwaza. It was constructed in 1881 by the Hussainabad Trust to welcome first Lieutenant Governor of Awadh, George Cooper. The architectural stunner has a clock made of gunmetal with a 1 ½ inches thick and 14 feet long pendulum and 12 petalled floral dial. Earlier it was operated manually but in 2010 it was upgraded to an electrical version.
Location & Address:	Opposite, Husainabad Imambara, Near Rumi Darwaza, Lucknow, Lucknow
Place Category & Type:	Monument - Forts & Tombs
Place visit with:	Friends, Solo, Siblings, Youngsters
Fees & Timings:	Hussainabad Clock Tower open 24 hours all days in week, No entry fee.
Best Time to Visit:	January, February, March, April, May, June, July, August, September, October, November, December
Nearest Metro Station:	City Railway Station Metro Station (2 KM) Thakurganj Metro Station (1 KM)
Indira Gandhi Planetarium, Lucknow
Also known as the Taramandal show Indira Gandhi Planetarium is situated at the Surajkund Park, on the banks of the River Gomti. The exclusive design of the building in the shape of Saturn with five rings surrounded by a pool of water captivates one and all. Equipped with a state of the art projection system, digital sound system, full-blown air conditioning facility, and a lift ramp for physically challenged it hosts several science exhibitions and astronomy shows throughout the year. Its virtual trips to space punctuated with gorgeous galaxies help satiate the curiosity space enthusiasts. Various models of the Indian satellites and informative data about celebrated Indian scientists like Aryabhatt, Varahamihira, etc are also exhibited here.
Location & Address:	Nabiullah Road, Qaiserbagh, Lucknow, Lucknow
Place Category & Type:	Museum and Gallery - Govt. Museum & Memorials
Place visit with:	Family, Kids, Parants
Fees & Timings:	Indira Gandhi Planetarium open from 11:00 am to 10:300 pm (Monday close), Entry fee Rs 25.
Best Time to Visit:	January, February, March
Nearest Metro Station:	Hazratganj Metro Station (2 KM) KD Singh Babu Stadium Metro Station (2 KM) Lucknow University Metro Station (2 KM) IT College Metro Station (2 KM) City Railway Station Metro Station (1 KM)
Jama Masjid, Lucknow
Exhibiting the splendor of Indo-Islamic architecture Jam Masjid is located amid the city and is an important seat of worship for Shia Muslims. Made out of yellow sandstone the grandeur of its craftsmanship is spellbinding. Built by Sultan Ahmed Shah in 1423 the monument has 260 pillars supporting 15 arched domes on different elevations. The domes remain inlaid with delicate designs while the pillars are adorned with ornate carvings inspired by the Hindu and Jain cultures. It is a testimony of the beauty and magnificence of the times bygone, that the city of Lucknow has been a witness to.
Location & Address:	Jama Masjid, Lucknow, Lucknow
Place Category & Type:	Religious Place - Mosques
Place visit with:	Family, Kids, Friends, Married Couples, Solo, Parants, Siblings, Youngsters
Fees & Timings:	Jama Masjid open from 05:00 am to 09:00 pm all days in week, No entry fee.
Best Time to Visit:	January, February, March, April
Nearest Metro Station: City Railway Station Metro Station (2 KM) Thakurganj Metro Station (0 KM)
Janeshwar Mishra Park, Lucknow
Constructed in the memory of a leading Samajwadi Party politician, Janeshwar Mishra, the park was inaugurated in 2014 in Gomti Nagar, Lucknow. It is considered to be one of Asia's biggest national parks. It is a favorite haunt for city dwellers and visitors. The panoramic views of verdant lawns, captivating brightly colored flower beds, large water bodies serving as an abode to several species of migratory birds are breathtaking.Other attractions here include well lit walking and cycle tracks, amphitheater, aesthetically designed garden furniture, boating facility, children's playground with swings, souveniers shops, lavatories, restaurants, and food plaza. It remains open on all days from morning to evening.
Location & Address:	Gomti Nagar, Lucknow, Lucknow
Place Category & Type:	Nature Sites and Parks - Park & Garden
Place visit with:	Family, Kids, Friends, Solo, Parants, Siblings, Youngsters
Fees & Timings:	Janeshwar Mishra Park open from 5:00 am to 1:00 pm, 2:00 pm to 11:00 pm all days in week, No entry fee.
Best Time to Visit:	July, August, September, October, November, December
Nawab Wahid Ali Shah Zoological Garden, Lucknow
Also known as the Banarsi Bagh the Lucknow Zoo is the oldest in North India and was established to commemorate the visit of Prince of Wales to Lucknow. The zoological garden is an abode to several species of animals, reptiles, and birds, including white tiger, hippopotamus, Indian python, white peacock, parakeet, etc and some endangered species of Rhesus monkey, Hoolock gibbon. Several other attractions here include a ride on toy train "Bal Rail", a visit to The State Museum and Folk Arts Museum exhibiting the acclaimed Awadhi artifacts, paddle boating in a man-made lake, a well-equipped aquarium and nocturnal house providing shelter to different types owls, porcupines, and other nocturnal animals can also be visited.
Location & Address:	River Bank Colony, Narhi, Qaisar Bagh, Lucknow, Lucknow
Place Category & Type:		Nature Sites and Parks - Zoo
Place visit with:	Family, Kids, Friends, Parants, Siblings, Youngsters
Fees & Timings: Nawab Wahid Ali shah zoological garden open from 11:00 am to 09:00 pm all days in week, Entry fee Rs 10.
Best Time to Visit:	January, February, March, April
Nearest Metro Station: Sachivalaya Metro Station (1 KM) Hazratganj Metro Station (1 KM) KD Singh Babu Stadium Metro Station (2 KM)
Ram Manohar Lohiya Park, Lucknow
Dedicated to a noted socialist Dr. Ram Manohar Lohiya the park covers a vast area in Gomti Nagar. The leisure park is frequented by joggers, families, yoga practitioners, and tourists alike. It is an ideal destination for unwinding while enjoying the company of friends and family. The site is divided into four courtyards each led to by a separate entrance. Its perfectly manicured lawns, meticulously laid flower beds and pruned shrubs are very inviting. It houses a well-constructed jogging track a fish pond, an acupressure track, and an open exercise area. It also has a kid's area installed with several swings. It remains accessible all through the week and is a favorite hangout for the city dwellers.
Location & Address:	Vipin Khand, Gomti Nagar, Lucknow, Lucknow
Place Category & Type:		Nature Sites and Parks - Park & Garden
Place visit with:	Married Couples, Unmarried Couples
Fees & Timings:		Ram Manohar Lohiya Park open from 10:30 am to 04:30 pm all days in week, Entry fee Rs for Rs 5.
Best Time to Visit:	July, August, September, October, November, December
Nearest Metro Station:	Lekhraj Market Metro Station (2 KM) Bhootnath Market Metro Station (2 KM)
Rumi Darwaza, Lucknow
The magnificent sixty feet tall gateway located between the Bara Imambara and Chota Imambara used to serve as an entrance to Old Lucknow City. Also known a the Turkish gate it bears a strong resemblance to Bab-i-Humayun, a gateway in Turkey. Standing at an impressive height of 60ft, it is made of brick coated with limestone. It remains ornate with beautiful carvings and designs. Legend says the monument's umbrella-like structure housed a lantern that used to be lit at night with the jets of water flowing from its arch. Rumi Darwaza has been adopted as a symbol of Lucknow and is bound to enchant everyone with its grandeur.
Location & Address:		Lajpat Nagar, Machchhi Bhavan, Lucknow, Lucknow
Place Category & Type:	Monument - Palace & Landmarks
Place visit with:	Friends, Solo, Siblings, Youngsters
Fees & Timings:		Rumi Darwaza open 24 hours all days in week, No entry fee.
Best Time to Visit:		January, February, March, April
Nearest Metro Station:	City Railway Station Metro Station (1 KM) Thakurganj Metro Station (1 KM)
Satkhanda, Lucknow
Located near the Chota Imambara the construction of this red brick, 35 feet architectural marvel was initiated drawing inspiration from the Leaning Tower of Pisa. Satkhanda or the seven-story was originally intended to be a seven-storied building, but could not be built beyond the 4 stories after the death of Nawab Muhamad Ali Shah. It is a tall watchtower with a blend of different architectural styles. The ground floor is around 10 feet tall and the successive stories are in decreasing order of height and breadth. They remain interconnected by a flight of stairs. A magnificent view of the city can be captured from the top story.
Location & Address:	Husainabad, Lucknow, Lucknow
Place Category & Type:	Monument - Palace & Landmarks
Place visit with:	Friends, Married Couples, Unmarried Couples, Youngsters
Fees & Timings:	Satkhanda open 24 hours all days in week, No entry fee.
Best Time to Visit:	May, June, July, August
Nearest Metro Station:City Railway Station Metro Station (2 KM) Thakurganj Metro Station (1 KM)
State Museum, Lucknow
The four-story State Museum is housed within the premises of the Lucknow Zoo. It is one of the oldest museums in the city and has been the chief center of attraction for history buffs. It has several galleries dedicated to different eras and studies like Indian sculpture gallery, Nawabs art, and coin gallery, archaeological gallery, Jain art gallery, Buddha gallery, metal art gallery, Egyptian gallery, a natural history gallery, and others. It showcases a broad spectrum of artifacts ranging from natural history objects from the Stone Age. It exhibits a rich collection of coins, sculptures, prehistoric tools, manuscripts, paintings, bronze images. One of the major attractions of the museum is Egyptian mummy and wooden burial boxes from 1000 BC.
Location & Address:	Banarasibagh, Hazratganj, Lucknow, Lucknow
Place Category & Type:	Museum and Gallery - Govt. Museum & Memorials
Place visit with:	Family, Kids, Friends, Solo, Parants, Siblings, Youngsters
Fees & Timings:	State Museum open from 10:30 am to 04:30 pm all days in week, Entry fee Rs for Inidan adult Rs 5, Child Rs 3 and Rs 50 for foreigner.
Best Time to Visit:	April, May, June
Nearest Metro Station:	Sachivalaya Metro Station (1 KM) Hazratganj Metro Station (1 KM) KD Singh Babu Stadium Metro Station (2 KM)
City FAQs
Lucknow City FAQs:
𝒬. What is Lucknow famous for?
𝒜. Lucknow famous for this world famous foods. Some famous food are Kulcha Nahari, Sheermal Kawabs, Kawab Paratha, Revdi etc, In clothing lucknow is famous for its chicken clothes and zari work.
𝒬. What is the best time to visit Lucknow city?
𝒜. The best time to visit Lucknow is October to March when the city experiences winter. Even though December and January could be a little foggy, the weather is pleasant and suitable for sightseeing.
𝒬. Lucknow is the city of which Indian state?
𝒜. Uttar Pradesh
𝒬. Does Lucknow city have an airport?
𝒜. Chaudhary Charan Singh International Airport.
𝒬. What are the names of railway stations of Lucknow city?
𝒜. Name of railway station(s) in Lucknow city: Lucknow Junction, Lucknow Junction NER, Gomti Nagar, DaliGanj Jn, Charbagh Railway Station Bus Stop, Mohibullapur, Chungi Pratapgarh Railway station, Lucknow Alambagh, Badshahnagar, Utraitia Junction
𝒬. What are the top malls or shopping places of Lucknow?
𝒜. Malls and Shopping places in Lucknow city: Saharaganj Mall, Phoenix United Mall, Fun Republic, Riverside Mall, East End Mall (Wave), Singapore Mall,
𝒬. What are the famous religious places in Lucknow?
𝒜. Famous Religious places in Lucknow city: Sri Venkateswara Temple, Chandrika Devi Temple, Aliganj Hanuman Temple, Hanuman Setu Mandir, Mankameshwar Temple, Sheetala Devi Mandir, Bhootnath Temple, Nageshwar Shiva Temple
𝒬. What are the places for fun and activities in Lucknow?
𝒜. Fun and Activity places in Lucknow city: Hazratganj, British Residency, Rumi Darwaza, Bara Imambara, Chota Imambara, Memorial Museum, Indira Gandhi Planetarium, Ambedkar Park, Lucknow Zoo, Jama Masjid, Lucknow Mahotsav
𝒬. List out the inter-state bus terminal and major bus stands of Lucknow city.
𝒜. Following are the names of major bus terminals of the Lucknow city: Charbagh Bus Station, Kaiserbagh Bus Stand, Charbagh Railway Station Bus Stop, Alambagh Bus Stand ISBT, Khadri Chowk Bus Stop, Aminabad Stand, Bus Station Mohanlal Ganj
𝒬. Does Lucknow city have any metro rail facility?
𝒜. Yes, Lucknow city has metro rail facility to commute locally. Search Lucknow Metro routes.
